docs/cloud/guides/traffic-management/authentication/jwt-auth.md, before:

---
title: Use JWT Auth to Protect Your APIs
reading_time: auto
show_feedback: true
---

You may want to protect your [APIs](../../../concepts/api.md)  or [Services](../../../concepts/service.md) by using API authentication.
With the authentication requirement, API7 Cloud will only forward API requests with valid authentication credentials. Other requests (without
credentials or with a wrong one) will be rejected and get a `401 Unauthorized` response.

JWT Auth is an API authentication method that requires API clients to provide a valid [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) in a request header, cookie or query string.

This guide will introduce using JWT Auth to protect your APIs when using API7 Cloud. You can also safeguard Services as long as you configure the Service's authentication plugin (instead of a specific API).

:::important

API7 Cloud uses the [Consumer](../../../concepts/consumer.md) concept to implement fine-grained API authentication, so please
learn what is Consumer before you go ahead.

:::

Prepare the Environment
-----------------------

### Deploy Apache APISIX

Please refer to [How to Deploy Apache APISIX](../../product/how-to-deploy-apache-apisix.md) to learn how to deploy
Apache APISIX and connect it to API7 Cloud. In this guide, we'll deploy an Apache APISIX instance on Docker.

### Create Service and API

We'll create a Service with the following details in this guide.

1. The Service name is `jwt-auth-app`.
2. The path prefix is `/v1`.
3. The HTTP Host is `auth.httpbin.org`.
4. The upstream URL is `https://httpbin.org`.

Besides, we'll create an API inside the `jwt-auth-app` Service.

1. The API name is `json`.
2. The path is `/json` (exact match).
3. Accepted HTTP method is `GET`.

:::tip

If you don't know how to configure a Service and API, please refer to the [Getting Started](../../../getting-started) guides first

:::

Configure Authentication Plugin on the API
------------------------------------------

You need to enable the Authentication plugin on the `json` API as per the steps below:

1. Enter the `json` API details page.
3. Click on **Add Plugin** and select the Authentication plugin.
4. Choose JWT Auth as the authentication method and fill out the form.

:::tip

The default token header is `Authorization`, the default token query is `jwt`, and the default token field in Cookie is also `jwt`.
:::

![Authentication Plugin JWT Auth](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/add-authentication-plugin-jwt-auth.png)

In this case, we set the token position is `Header` and its name is `Authorization`.

:::tip
The checkbox `Strip Credentials` controls if Apache APISIX should remove the authentication credentials before forwarding
the requests to the backend. By default, it will be reserved.
:::

Now let's try to access this API.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/json -H 'Host: auth.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2022 01:59:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

{"message":"Missing JWT token in request"}
```

Since we don't take any credentials, Apache APISIX will reject the request.

Configure JWT Auth Plugin on Consumer
--------------------------------------

Now let's create a Consumer and configure the JWT credentials.

1. The Consumer's name is `oiloil`.
2. Add a credentials of type JWT Auth.
3. Fill in `oiloil_key` as the key and click the random button to generate a secret.
4. Check the base64 encoding and algorithm uses the default `HS256`
![Create JWT Auth Consumer](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/create-jwt-auth-consumer.png)

:::tip

Since some systems can only use [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII) characters, base64 is a method used to convert data in non-ASCII characters to ASCII characters.

:::

Generate JSON Web Token for the Consumer
--------------------------------------

Now let's generate a new JSON Web Token. You can enter the Consumer details page and click on the **Generate JSON Web Token** button to open the popup create window.

![Generate JSON Web Token Button](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/generate-jwt-button.png)

1. Set the token expiry date to expire on June 30, 2022. Note please select a proper time when you execute this step.
2. Add two custom payload fields,  `user` and `age`, values are `oiloil` and `18` perspectives.

![Generate JSON Web Token Form](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/generate-jwt-form.png)

After clicking the **Generate** button, another pop-up window will appear with the successful prompts, you can click the **Copy** button to copy the token to the clipboard.

![JSON Web Token Copy Modal](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/jwt-copy-modal.png)

:::tip

Please make sure to copy the token in the current pop-up window and save it, you won’t be able to see it again!

:::

Test the Authentication
-----------------------

Let's send a request with the JSON Web Token.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/json -H 'Host: auth.httpbin.org' -H 'Authorization: <Your JSON Web Token>'
-i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 429
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2022 04:47:22 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

{
  "slideshow": {
    "author": "Yours Truly",
    "date": "date of publication",
    "slides": [
      {
        "title": "Wake up to WonderWidgets!",
        "type": "all"
      },
      {
        "items": [
          "Why <em>WonderWidgets</em> are great",
          "Who <em>buys</em> WonderWidgets"
        ],
        "title": "Overview",
        "type": "all"
      }
    ],
    "title": "Sample Slide Show"
  }
}
```

After taking the correct JSON Web Token, Apache APISIX will forward the request to the backend.

If we take a wrong JSON Web Token, the API request will be rejected by Apache APISIX.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/json -H 'Host: auth.httpbin.org' -i -H 'Authorization: wrong token'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2022 04:49:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

{"message":"JWT token invalid"}
```

You can decode your json web token at [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) to verify that the token is carrying the correct data.

![Decode JSON Web Token](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/decode-jwt.png)

What's Next
-----------

- [Authentication Plugin Reference](../../../references/plugins/traffic-management/authentication.md)
- [Apache APISIX JWT Auth Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/zh/docs/apisix/plugins/jwt-auth)

Commit message:

docs: rename api to route (#73)
Signed-off-by: tokers <zchao1995@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: litesun <sunyi@apache.org>

docs/cloud/guides/traffic-management/authentication/jwt-auth.md, after:

---
title: Use JWT Auth to Protect Your APIs
reading_time: auto
show_feedback: true
---

You may want to protect your [routes](../../../concepts/route.md)  or [services](../../../concepts/service.md) by using API authentication.
With the authentication requirement, API7 Cloud will only forward API requests with valid authentication credentials. Other requests (without
credentials or with a wrong one) will be rejected and get a `401 Unauthorized` response.

JWT Auth is an API authentication method that requires API clients to provide a valid [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) in a request header, cookie or query string.

This guide will introduce using JWT Auth to protect your APIs when using API7 Cloud. You can also safeguard services as long as you configure the Service's authentication plugin (instead of a specific route).

:::important

API7 Cloud uses the [Consumer](../../../concepts/consumer.md) concept to implement fine-grained API authentication, so please
learn what is Consumer before you go ahead.

:::

Prepare the Environment
-----------------------

### Deploy Apache APISIX

Please refer to [How to Deploy Apache APISIX](../../product/how-to-deploy-apache-apisix.md) to learn how to deploy
Apache APISIX and connect it to API7 Cloud. In this guide, we'll deploy an Apache APISIX instance on Docker.

### Create Service and Route

We'll create a service with the following details in this guide.

1. The service name is `jwt-auth-app`.
2. The path prefix is `/v1`.
3. The HTTP Host is `auth.httpbin.org`.
4. The upstream URL is `https://httpbin.org`.

Besides, we'll create a route inside the `jwt-auth-app` Service.

1. The route name is `json`.
2. The path is `/json` (exact match).
3. Accepted HTTP method is `GET`.

:::tip

If you don't know how to configure a service and route, please refer to the [Getting Started](../../../getting-started) guides first

:::

Configure Authentication Plugin on the Route
--------------------------------------------

You need to enable the Authentication plugin on the `json` route as per the steps below:

1. Enter the `json` route details page.
3. Click on **Add Plugin** and select the Authentication plugin.
4. Choose JWT Auth as the authentication method and fill out the form.

:::tip

The default token header is `Authorization`, the default token query is `jwt`, and the default token field in Cookie is also `jwt`.
:::

![Authentication Plugin JWT Auth](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/add-authentication-plugin-jwt-auth.png)

In this case, we set the token position is `Header` and its name is `Authorization`.

:::tip
The checkbox `Strip Credentials` controls if Apache APISIX should remove the authentication credentials before forwarding
the requests to the backend. By default, it will be reserved.
:::

Now let's try to access this route.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/json -H 'Host: auth.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2022 01:59:35 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

{"message":"Missing JWT token in request"}
```

Since we don't take any credentials, Apache APISIX will reject the request.

Configure JWT Auth Plugin on Consumer
--------------------------------------

Now let's create a Consumer and configure the JWT credentials.

1. The Consumer's name is `oiloil`.
2. Add a credentials of type JWT Auth.
3. Fill in `oiloil_key` as the key and click the random button to generate a secret.
4. Check the base64 encoding and algorithm uses the default `HS256`
![Create JWT Auth Consumer](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/create-jwt-auth-consumer.png)

:::tip

Since some systems can only use [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII) characters, base64 is a method used to convert data in non-ASCII characters to ASCII characters.

:::

Generate JSON Web Token for the Consumer
--------------------------------------

Now let's generate a new JSON Web Token. You can enter the Consumer details page and click on the **Generate JSON Web Token** button to open the popup create window.

![Generate JSON Web Token Button](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/generate-jwt-button.png)

1. Set the token expiry date to expire on June 30, 2022. Note please select a proper time when you execute this step.
2. Add two custom payload fields,  `user` and `age`, values are `oiloil` and `18` perspectives.

![Generate JSON Web Token Form](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/generate-jwt-form.png)

After clicking the **Generate** button, another pop-up window will appear with the successful prompts, you can click the **Copy** button to copy the token to the clipboard.

![JSON Web Token Copy Modal](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/jwt-copy-modal.png)

:::tip

Please make sure to copy the token in the current pop-up window and save it, you won’t be able to see it again!

:::

Test the Authentication
-----------------------

Let's send a request with the JSON Web Token.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/json -H 'Host: auth.httpbin.org' -H 'Authorization: <Your JSON Web Token>'
-i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 429
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2022 04:47:22 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

{
  "slideshow": {
    "author": "Yours Truly",
    "date": "date of publication",
    "slides": [
      {
        "title": "Wake up to WonderWidgets!",
        "type": "all"
      },
      {
        "items": [
          "Why <em>WonderWidgets</em> are great",
          "Who <em>buys</em> WonderWidgets"
        ],
        "title": "Overview",
        "type": "all"
      }
    ],
    "title": "Sample Slide Show"
  }
}
```

After taking the correct JSON Web Token, Apache APISIX will forward the request to the backend.

If we take a wrong JSON Web Token, the API request will be rejected by Apache APISIX.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/json -H 'Host: auth.httpbin.org' -i -H 'Authorization: wrong token'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2022 04:49:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

{"message":"JWT token invalid"}
```

You can decode your json web token at [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) to verify that the token is carrying the correct data.

![Decode JSON Web Token](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/decode-jwt.png)

What's Next
-----------

- [Authentication Plugin Reference](../../../references/plugins/traffic-management/authentication.md)
- [Apache APISIX JWT Auth Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/zh/docs/apisix/plugins/jwt-auth)
