docs/cloud/guides/traffic-management/authentication/openid-connect.md, before:

---
title: Use OpenID Connect to Protect Your APIs
reading_time: auto
show_feedback: true
---

OpenID Connect is an identity layer based on the OAuth 2.0 framework. It allows third-party applications to
authenticate the end-user and obtain their basic information.

API7 Cloud supports the OpenID Connect plugin so that you can authenticate your API consumers with well-known providers
like [Google](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/openid-connect), [Auth0](https://auth0.com/), etc.

This guide will show you how to use the OpenID Connect plugin to integrate the Auth0 service.

Prepare the Environment
-----------------------

### Deploy Apache APISIX

Please refer to [How to Deploy Apache APISIX](../../product/how-to-deploy-apache-apisix.md) to learn how to deploy
Apache APISIX and connect it to API7 Cloud. In this guide, we'll deploy an Apache APISIX instance on Docker.

### Create Application and API

We'll create an Application with the following details in this guide.

1. The Application name is `oidc-app`.
2. The path prefix is `/v1`.
3. The HTTP Host is `oidc.httpbin.org`.
4. The upstream URL is `https://httpbin.org`.

Besides, we'll create an API inside the `oidc-app` Application.

1. The API name is `anything`.
2. The path is `/anything` (prefix match).
3. Accepted HTTP method is `GET`.

:::tip

If you don't know how to configure an Application and API, please refer to the [Getting Started](../../../getting-started) guides first

:::

Then, let's add the OpenID Connect plugin to the `oidc-app` Application.

![Add OpenID Connect Plugin](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/add-oidc-plugin.png)

We create an [Application](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/applications) on Auth0 before and fill in its `Client ID`, `Client Secret`, and `Identity Server` here.
You should replace them according to your actual case. Moreover, we fill the `Redirect URI` to `http://oidc.httpbin.org:9080/v1/anything/callback` so that the
redirected API call will also match the `anything` API. You can use any endpoint if you ensure the redirected API call will be handled by the
same API where the OIDC authentication starts.

:::important

Please avoid using any meaningful business API endpoint when you design the `Redirect URI`.

:::

Test the Authentication
-----------------------

We'll use the browser to access the `oidc-app` Application. The URL is `https://oidc.httpbin.org:9080/v1/anything` in our case.

Before doing that, please make sure you set the DNS resolution for
`odic-app.httpbin.org` to your Apache APISIX instance (e.g., change the `/etc/hosts` file).

![OpenID Connect Login](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/oidc-login.png)

We use a pre-created user account to log in.

![OpenID Connect Anything](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/oidc-anything-api.png)

As you can see, we are authenticated by Auth0, and the user information is encoded into the `X-Userinfo` header. We
can see the user information by decoding it.

```shell
echo 'eyJzdWIiOiJhdXRoMHw2MmUwYTcwYzc2MTQxYzVhYmU2NDNmMTIifQ==' | base64 -d
{"sub":"auth0|62e0a70c76141c5abe643f12"}
```

See Also
--------

* [API7 Cloud OpenID Connect Plugin Reference](../../../references/plugins/traffic-management/authentication.md#openid-connect)
* [Apache APISIX OpenID Connect Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/openid-connect/)
* [How to Integrate Keycloak for Authentication with Apache APISIX](https://www.keycloak.org/2021/12/apisix)
* [Centralize Authentication at the Gateway with Apache APISIX and OpenID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/08/18/apache-apisix-gateway)

Commit message:

docs: rename application to service (#72)

docs/cloud/guides/traffic-management/authentication/openid-connect.md, after:

---
title: Use OpenID Connect to Protect Your APIs
reading_time: auto
show_feedback: true
---

OpenID Connect is an identity layer based on the OAuth 2.0 framework. It allows third-party Service to
authenticate the end-user and obtain their basic information.

API7 Cloud supports the OpenID Connect plugin so that you can authenticate your API consumers with well-known providers
like [Google](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/openid-connect), [Auth0](https://auth0.com/), etc.

This guide will show you how to use the OpenID Connect plugin to integrate the Auth0 service.

Prepare the Environment
-----------------------

### Deploy Apache APISIX

Please refer to [How to Deploy Apache APISIX](../../product/how-to-deploy-apache-apisix.md) to learn how to deploy
Apache APISIX and connect it to API7 Cloud. In this guide, we'll deploy an Apache APISIX instance on Docker.

### Create Service and API

We'll create a Service with the following details in this guide.

1. The Service name is `oidc-app`.
2. The path prefix is `/v1`.
3. The HTTP Host is `oidc.httpbin.org`.
4. The upstream URL is `https://httpbin.org`.

Besides, we'll create an API inside the `oidc-app` Service.

1. The API name is `anything`.
2. The path is `/anything` (prefix match).
3. Accepted HTTP method is `GET`.

:::tip

If you don't know how to configure a Service and API, please refer to the [Getting Started](../../../getting-started) guides first

:::

Then, let's add the OpenID Connect plugin to the `oidc-app` Service.

![Add OpenID Connect Plugin](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/add-oidc-plugin.png)

We create an [Application](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/applications) on Auth0 before and fill in its `Client ID`, `Client Secret`, and `Identity Server` here.
You should replace them according to your actual case. Moreover, we fill the `Redirect URI` to `http://oidc.httpbin.org:9080/v1/anything/callback` so that the
redirected API call will also match the `anything` API. You can use any endpoint if you ensure the redirected API call will be handled by the
same API where the OIDC authentication starts.

:::important

Please avoid using any meaningful business API endpoint when you design the `Redirect URI`.

:::

Test the Authentication
-----------------------

We'll use the browser to access the `oidc-app` Service. The URL is `https://oidc.httpbin.org:9080/v1/anything` in our case.

Before doing that, please make sure you set the DNS resolution for
`odic-app.httpbin.org` to your Apache APISIX instance (e.g., change the `/etc/hosts` file).

![OpenID Connect Login](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/oidc-login.png)

We use a pre-created user account to log in.

![OpenID Connect Anything](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/oidc-anything-api.png)

As you can see, we are authenticated by Auth0, and the user information is encoded into the `X-Userinfo` header. We
can see the user information by decoding it.

```shell
echo 'eyJzdWIiOiJhdXRoMHw2MmUwYTcwYzc2MTQxYzVhYmU2NDNmMTIifQ==' | base64 -d
{"sub":"auth0|62e0a70c76141c5abe643f12"}
```

See Also
--------

* [API7 Cloud OpenID Connect Plugin Reference](../../../references/plugins/traffic-management/authentication.md#openid-connect)
* [Apache APISIX OpenID Connect Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/openid-connect/)
* [How to Integrate Keycloak for Authentication with Apache APISIX](https://www.keycloak.org/2021/12/apisix)
* [Centralize Authentication at the Gateway with Apache APISIX and OpenID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/08/18/apache-apisix-gateway)
