docs/cloud/guides/product/cluster-settings.md, before:

---
title: Tweak Cluster Settings
reading_time: auto
show_feedback: true
---

The [Cluster](../../concepts/cluster.md) provided by API7 Cloud is also
dynamic, with some cluster level settings. This guide will show you how to
tweak the cluster settings to satisfy your personalized needs.

Prepare the Environment
-----------------------

Also, what we'll adjust are cluster scope settings. We still need to deploy a gateway
instance and create an [Application](../../concepts/application.md) and [API](../../concepts/api.md), since
we will verify the setting changes via API requests.

### Deploy Apache APISIX

Please refer to [How to Deploy Apache APISIX](../product/how-to-deploy-apache-apisix.md) to learn how to deploy
Apache APISIX and connect it to API7 Cloud. In this guide, we'll deploy an Apache APISIX instance on Docker.

### Create Application and API

We'll create an Application with the following details in this guide.

1. The Application name is `cp-setting-app`.
2. The path prefix is `/v1`.
3. The HTTP Host is `cp-setting.httpbin.org`.
4. The upstream URL is `https://httpbin.org`.

Besides, we'll create an API inside the `cp-setting-app` Application.

1. The API name is `anything`.
2. The path is `/anyting` (exact match), and strip the path prefix.
3. It accepts the GET and POST methods.

:::note

If you don't know how to configure an Application and API, please refer to the [Getting Started](../../getting-started) guides first.

:::

Tweak Cluster Settings
----------------------------

## Client Settings

### Maximum Request Body Size

By default, the maximum API request body size is not limited, and thus
the backend service might be overwhelmed by these large messages.

API7 Cloud allows you to configure an explicit limitation for the request
Apache APISIX will reject an API request with a too large body directly.

![CP Maximum Request Body Size](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/u3h3VuXQ_cluster-maximum-request-body-size.png)

In this case, we restrict the **Maximum Request Body Size** to `16` bytes. Now let's verify it.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i -d '{"message": "hello world"}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 413 Request Entity Too Large
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 05:45:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 180
Connection: close
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

<html>
<head><title>413 Request Entity Too Large</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>413 Request Entity Too Large</h1></center>
<hr><center>openresty</center>
</body>
</html>
```

The API request we sent has a body whose size is `26`, and Apache APISIX rejected it. The status code is `413`.

Now let's send another API request with a more petite body (size is `16`), and Apache APISIX will typically forward the request to the backend.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i -d '{"status": "OK"}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 550
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 05:47:19 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {
    "{\"status\": \"OK\"}": ""
  },
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Content-Length": "16",
    "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c52e7-52caa56523b543220dbcc30e",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "POST",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

:::tip
Set **Maximum Request Body Size** to `0` can disable the API request body size restriction.
:::

### Real IP Replacement

The client IP address that Apache APISIX sees might not be the actual one if there are other
proxy components in front of it (e.g., Cloud Load Balancer). However, users may want to use the actual client IP address
to make critical decisions and decide if the current API request should succeed.

API7 Cloud allows users to configure the real IP replacement rule to fetch the desired IP from API requests (e.g., header, query string).

![CP Real IP Replacement](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/V4FY522L_cluster-real-ip-replacement.png)

In this case, if a request is sent from `172.17.0.1`, Apache APISIX will try to replace the client IP address from the HTTP header `X-My-Client-IP`.
The mechanism we expose the port `9080` to the host decides that the original client IP address the Apache APISIX seen is its container address,
not `127.0.0.1` (when we send API requests from the host).

:::important
It's recommended to set the **Trusted Addresses** field to avoid the IP address being tampered with accidentally.
:::

To check if the IP replacement takes effect, we configure the Response Rewrite plugin on the `cp-setting-app`, and let it echo.
After the replacement, the client IP (the variable `$remote_addr`).

![CP Add Response Rewrite Plugin](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/cp-add-resp-rewrite-plugin.png)

Let's send a request to check if the IP replacement takes effect.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -v -H 'X-My-Client-IP: 10.0.5.3'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 462
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Wed, 31 Aug 2022 06:21:27 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200
X-My-Client-IP: 10.0.5.3

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630efde7-10025c9b58850e3a01a2ffb7",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "X-My-Client-Ip": "10.0.5.3"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "http://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

The `X-My-Client-IP` is shown in the response headers, and the value is the same as the one we carry in the request header `X-My-Client-IP`.
This means the remote IP address replacement takes effect in Apache APISIX.

:::tip
Apache APISIX adds the `X-Real-IP` header when it forwards requests to the backend.
The value is also affected by the client's IP replacement. You won't see it in the `anything` API response body
since HTTPBIN removes it.
:::

Observability Settings
----------------------

![CP Upload Prometheus Metrics](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/F4kqxxh9_cluster-setting-upload-prometheus-metrics.png)

### Upload Prometheus Metrics

You can also opt to disable to upload Prometheus metrics from gateway instances if you don't want to expose
these gateway metrics to API7 Cloud, or you already have an APM system.

### Show All Upstream Status in Response Header

By default, Apache APISIX will show the upstream status code in the HTTP response header `X-APISIX-Upstream-Status` if the
upstream is abnormal and the status code is `5XX`. You can also enable the **Show All Upstream Status in Response Header**.
After that, whatever the upstream status code is, it will be shown in `X-APISIX-Upstream-Status`.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 06:25:25 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c5bd5-0bcdde1d56a3ace44df32a62",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

### Rotate Logs

The error log and access log files generated by the Apache APISIX will grow over time if you don't rotate them. These files may
cause a full disk problem, especially when you deploy Apache APISIX on bare metal. API7 Cloud allows you to configure
the log rotate in cluster settings.

![CP Log Rotate](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/JqIGbw3G_cluster-log-rotate.png)

In this case, we hope Apache APISIX generates a log file every `10` seconds or if the number of log entries reaches `1000`. The
Apache APISIX will compress generated log file.

Wait for a while after saving the settings, and execute the following command to see the log files.

```shell
docker exec -it <Apache APISIX Container ID> ls -l logs/
```

API Proxy Settings
------------------

![CP API Proxy Settings](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/3LAa64uk_cluster-api-proxy-settings.png)

### Enable Request Buffering

By default, Apache APISIX will read the API request body in advance before forwarding it to the backend,
Apache APISIX may use the disk to buffer the content if the memory buffer size is not sufficient to hold
the whole API request body may hurt the performance due to the slow disk.

You can disable the **Enable Request Buffering** option in the cluster settings. After that, Apache APISIX
will forward the API request body synchronously.

:::important
When you disable the request buffering, the retry mechanism cannot work for API requests with the request body. Since
Apache APISIX doesn't buffer them.
:::

### Server Header Customization

You can rewrite the `Server` header in API response in cluster settings if you have the following needs:

1. avoid showing the specific Apache APISIX version to clients, or
2. show a custom server name due to the business needs

#### Avoid showing Apache APISIX version

![CP Hide Apache APISIX Version](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/D7xd0VEE_cluster-hide-apisix-version.png)

Now let's send a request to verify it.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 07:01:47 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c645b-5e1c6fc4761664a9444ba956",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

As you can see, the version information is not in the `Server` header.

#### Show a Custom Server Name

![CP Custom Server Name](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/YBNeFs6y_cluster-custom-server-name.png)

Let's send an API request to check if the change takes effect.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 07:05:09 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: My-API-Gateway
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c6525-6e7d0e2f7cc339d85018653a",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

As you can see, the `Server` header is `My-API-Gateway`.

### URI Handling

You may want to apply some changes for URI. Currently, API7 Cloud allows users to delete the tailing slash, so
that URIs like `/v1/anything/` will have the same effect as `/v1/anything`.

![CP Delete Tailing Slash](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/tGtNgEuP_cluster-delete-tail-slash.png)

Now let's send an API request to `/v1/anything/`.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything/ -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 07:26:02 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c6a09-181abf2d04ab2e4a278efa9b",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

The API request is handled by Apache APISIX just like `/v1/anything`.

See Also
--------

* [Apache APISIX Client Control Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/client-control/)
* [Apache APISIX Real IP Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/real-ip/)
* [Apache APISIX Log Rotate Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/log-rotate/)
* [Apache APISIX Proxy Control Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/proxy-control/)
* [Apache APISIX Static Configuration](https://github.com/apache/apisix/blob/master/conf/config-default.yaml)

Commit message:

docs: rename application to service (#72)

docs/cloud/guides/product/cluster-settings.md, after:

---
title: Tweak Cluster Settings
reading_time: auto
show_feedback: true
---

The [Cluster](../../concepts/cluster.md) provided by API7 Cloud is also
dynamic, with some cluster level settings. This guide will show you how to
tweak the cluster settings to satisfy your personalized needs.

Prepare the Environment
-----------------------

Also, what we'll adjust are cluster scope settings. We still need to deploy a gateway
instance and create an [Service](../../concepts/service.md) and [API](../../concepts/api.md), since
we will verify the setting changes via API requests.

### Deploy Apache APISIX

Please refer to [How to Deploy Apache APISIX](../product/how-to-deploy-apache-apisix.md) to learn how to deploy
Apache APISIX and connect it to API7 Cloud. In this guide, we'll deploy an Apache APISIX instance on Docker.

### Create Service and API

We'll create a Service with the following details in this guide.

1. The Service name is `cp-setting-app`.
2. The path prefix is `/v1`.
3. The HTTP Host is `cp-setting.httpbin.org`.
4. The upstream URL is `https://httpbin.org`.

Besides, we'll create an API inside the `cp-setting-app` Service.

1. The API name is `anything`.
2. The path is `/anyting` (exact match), and strip the path prefix.
3. It accepts the GET and POST methods.

:::note

If you don't know how to configure a Service and API, please refer to the [Getting Started](../../getting-started) guides first.

:::

Tweak Cluster Settings
----------------------------

## Client Settings

### Maximum Request Body Size

By default, the maximum API request body size is not limited, and thus
the backend service might be overwhelmed by these large messages.

API7 Cloud allows you to configure an explicit limitation for the request
Apache APISIX will reject an API request with a too large body directly.

![CP Maximum Request Body Size](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/u3h3VuXQ_cluster-maximum-request-body-size.png)

In this case, we restrict the **Maximum Request Body Size** to `16` bytes. Now let's verify it.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i -d '{"message": "hello world"}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 413 Request Entity Too Large
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 05:45:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 180
Connection: close
Server: APISIX/2.15.0

<html>
<head><title>413 Request Entity Too Large</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>413 Request Entity Too Large</h1></center>
<hr><center>openresty</center>
</body>
</html>
```

The API request we sent has a body whose size is `26`, and Apache APISIX rejected it. The status code is `413`.

Now let's send another API request with a more petite body (size is `16`), and Apache APISIX will typically forward the request to the backend.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i -d '{"status": "OK"}'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 550
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 05:47:19 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {
    "{\"status\": \"OK\"}": ""
  },
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Content-Length": "16",
    "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c52e7-52caa56523b543220dbcc30e",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "POST",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

:::tip
Set **Maximum Request Body Size** to `0` can disable the API request body size restriction.
:::

### Real IP Replacement

The client IP address that Apache APISIX sees might not be the actual one if there are other
proxy components in front of it (e.g., Cloud Load Balancer). However, users may want to use the actual client IP address
to make critical decisions and decide if the current API request should succeed.

API7 Cloud allows users to configure the real IP replacement rule to fetch the desired IP from API requests (e.g., header, query string).

![CP Real IP Replacement](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/V4FY522L_cluster-real-ip-replacement.png)

In this case, if a request is sent from `172.17.0.1`, Apache APISIX will try to replace the client IP address from the HTTP header `X-My-Client-IP`.
The mechanism we expose the port `9080` to the host decides that the original client IP address the Apache APISIX seen is its container address,
not `127.0.0.1` (when we send API requests from the host).

:::important
It's recommended to set the **Trusted Addresses** field to avoid the IP address being tampered with accidentally.
:::

To check if the IP replacement takes effect, we configure the Response Rewrite plugin on the `cp-setting-app`, and let it echo.
After the replacement, the client IP (the variable `$remote_addr`).

![CP Add Response Rewrite Plugin](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/12/30/cp-add-resp-rewrite-plugin.png)

Let's send a request to check if the IP replacement takes effect.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -v -H 'X-My-Client-IP: 10.0.5.3'
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 462
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Wed, 31 Aug 2022 06:21:27 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200
X-My-Client-IP: 10.0.5.3

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630efde7-10025c9b58850e3a01a2ffb7",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "X-My-Client-Ip": "10.0.5.3"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "http://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

The `X-My-Client-IP` is shown in the response headers, and the value is the same as the one we carry in the request header `X-My-Client-IP`.
This means the remote IP address replacement takes effect in Apache APISIX.

:::tip
Apache APISIX adds the `X-Real-IP` header when it forwards requests to the backend.
The value is also affected by the client's IP replacement. You won't see it in the `anything` API response body
since HTTPBIN removes it.
:::

Observability Settings
----------------------

![CP Upload Prometheus Metrics](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/F4kqxxh9_cluster-setting-upload-prometheus-metrics.png)

### Upload Prometheus Metrics

You can also opt to disable to upload Prometheus metrics from gateway instances if you don't want to expose
these gateway metrics to API7 Cloud, or you already have an APM system.

### Show All Upstream Status in Response Header

By default, Apache APISIX will show the upstream status code in the HTTP response header `X-APISIX-Upstream-Status` if the
upstream is abnormal and the status code is `5XX`. You can also enable the **Show All Upstream Status in Response Header**.
After that, whatever the upstream status code is, it will be shown in `X-APISIX-Upstream-Status`.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 06:25:25 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX/2.15.0
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c5bd5-0bcdde1d56a3ace44df32a62",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

### Rotate Logs

The error log and access log files generated by the Apache APISIX will grow over time if you don't rotate them. These files may
cause a full disk problem, especially when you deploy Apache APISIX on bare metal. API7 Cloud allows you to configure
the log rotate in cluster settings.

![CP Log Rotate](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/JqIGbw3G_cluster-log-rotate.png)

In this case, we hope Apache APISIX generates a log file every `10` seconds or if the number of log entries reaches `1000`. The
Apache APISIX will compress generated log file.

Wait for a while after saving the settings, and execute the following command to see the log files.

```shell
docker exec -it <Apache APISIX Container ID> ls -l logs/
```

API Proxy Settings
------------------

![CP API Proxy Settings](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/3LAa64uk_cluster-api-proxy-settings.png)

### Enable Request Buffering

By default, Apache APISIX will read the API request body in advance before forwarding it to the backend,
Apache APISIX may use the disk to buffer the content if the memory buffer size is not sufficient to hold
the whole API request body may hurt the performance due to the slow disk.

You can disable the **Enable Request Buffering** option in the cluster settings. After that, Apache APISIX
will forward the API request body synchronously.

:::important
When you disable the request buffering, the retry mechanism cannot work for API requests with the request body. Since
Apache APISIX doesn't buffer them.
:::

### Server Header Customization

You can rewrite the `Server` header in API response in cluster settings if you have the following needs:

1. avoid showing the specific Apache APISIX version to clients, or
2. show a custom server name due to the business needs

#### Avoid showing Apache APISIX version

![CP Hide Apache APISIX Version](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/D7xd0VEE_cluster-hide-apisix-version.png)

Now let's send a request to verify it.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 07:01:47 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c645b-5e1c6fc4761664a9444ba956",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

As you can see, the version information is not in the `Server` header.

#### Show a Custom Server Name

![CP Custom Server Name](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/YBNeFs6y_cluster-custom-server-name.png)

Let's send an API request to check if the change takes effect.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 07:05:09 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: My-API-Gateway
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c6525-6e7d0e2f7cc339d85018653a",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

As you can see, the `Server` header is `My-API-Gateway`.

### URI Handling

You may want to apply some changes for URI. Currently, API7 Cloud allows users to delete the tailing slash, so
that URIs like `/v1/anything/` will have the same effect as `/v1/anything`.

![CP Delete Tailing Slash](https://static.apiseven.com/uploads/2023/01/12/tGtNgEuP_cluster-delete-tail-slash.png)

Now let's send an API request to `/v1/anything/`.

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:9080/v1/anything/ -H 'Host: cp-setting.httpbin.org' -i
```

```shell
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 428
Connection: keep-alive
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 2022 07:26:02 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
Server: APISIX
X-APISIX-Upstream-Status: 200

{
  "args": {},
  "data": "",
  "files": {},
  "form": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.76.1",
    "X-Amzn-Trace-Id": "Root=1-630c6a09-181abf2d04ab2e4a278efa9b",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "cp-setting.httpbin.org"
  },
  "json": null,
  "method": "GET",
  "origin": "172.17.0.1, 61.241.66.251",
  "url": "https://cp-setting.httpbin.org/anything"
}
```

The API request is handled by Apache APISIX just like `/v1/anything`.

See Also
--------

* [Apache APISIX Client Control Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/client-control/)
* [Apache APISIX Real IP Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/real-ip/)
* [Apache APISIX Log Rotate Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/log-rotate/)
* [Apache APISIX Proxy Control Plugin](https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/plugins/proxy-control/)
* [Apache APISIX Static Configuration](https://github.com/apache/apisix/blob/master/conf/config-default.yaml)
